Clash Royale
Supercell
Clash Royale is a freemium mobile strategy video game developed and published by Supercell.
The game combines elements from collectible card games, tower defense, and multiplayer online battle arena. The game was released globally on March 2, 2016.
In Clash Royale, players are ranked by level and trophies. The maximum level is thirteen, while there are nine arenas (excluding the Training Camp) in total in the game. A player wins a battle by destroying more towers than the opponent, or by destroying the opponent's "King's Tower", which grants an automatic three "crown" victory. At the start of each game, both players are given a "hand" of four cards from a "deck" of eight cards chosen by the player.
Cards can be used to attack and defend. To play the cards, the player must have enough "elixir", one elixir automatically being replenished every 2.8 second(during double elixir 1.4 seconds).
Once a card is placed, a new card from the deck is drawn to the hand. The arena that you are in, is determined by the number of "trophies" that you have. Trophies are acquired by winning battles. However, trophies can be deducted by losing battles as well. Players may increase their "level" by "donating" or "upgrading" cards, which gain experience points. Once you level up, the "Arena Towers" and "King's Tower's" hit points and damage increase. The amount of experience points necessary to rank up increases with each level.

As a free to play game, Clash Royale offers players the ability to purchase "gems" and "gold" in the card shop using real-world money. "Gems" and "gold" can be used to purchase chests and cards from the shop. When a player wins a multiplayer battle, he or she must obtain a "chest", which takes a certain amount of time to open depending on the rarity of the chest. Chests take a certain amount of time to unlock: Silver Chests take 3 hours to unlock, Golden Chests take 8 hours, Giant, Magical and Epic Chests take 12 hours, while Super Magical and Legendary Chests take 24 hours. Gems may be used to speed up unlocking or can be used to purchase a chest. Chests contain cards, gold, while free chests and crown chests contain gems. Different levels of chest contain different numbers or types of cards. When the player has a certain number of a troop's cards, they can upgrade it to increase its statistics. A player can hold a maximum of 4 chests at one time; to open up chest slots a chest will need to be opened. Free chests are also given to the player once every 4 hours, and only two of these can be stored. Every 24 hours, the player also has the chance to win a Crown Chest by claiming 10 "crowns" from battle victories. Both the Free and Crown Chests unlock instantly.

Players battle through 9 arenas each requiring a certain amount of trophies. You start in the Training Camp which teaches you how to play the game and progress through eight battles. Once victorious in all of those battles they advance to the next arena which is "Goblin Stadium".
Players can progress through the rest of the arenas by acquiring a certain amount of trophies.

Players may also form clans with 100 gems. Clan members may engage in "friendly battles" with one another, the outcome of which does not affect trophies or chests, however contribute to the 'practice with friends' achievement. The "friendly battle" feature allows for live spectating from other clanmates. Clan members may also donate or request cards from one another, which the number of cards requestable depends on your arena. Donating cards provides some experience points and gold when done.

In July 2016, Supercell introduced a new "Tournament" feature. The feature is unlocked at level 8.
Tournaments can only be created by using gems, but anyone may join. Based on tournament performance, players are rewarded with tournament chests.

In October 2016, Supercell introduced the victory challenge. The challenge ends with both 12 wins or 3 loses, whichever comes first. There are 2 types of challenges, being the classic one costing 10 gems and the grand one using 100 gems. The maximum price for classic challenge is 2000 gold and 100 cards, while the grand challenge is 22000 gold and 1400 cards. By calculation, it is generally cheaper to win challenges for earning cards than buying golds and cards singlely with gems.