Clash Of Clans
Supercell
Clash of Clans is a freemium mobile MMO strategy video game developed and published by Supercell. The game was released for iOS platforms on August 2, 2012, and on Google Play for Android on October 7, 2013.

Clash of Clans tasks players to build their own town using the resources gained from attacking other players through the game's fighting features. The main resources are gold, elixir and dark elixir. Players can conjoin to create clans, groups of up to fifty people who can then partake in Clan Wars together, donate and receive troops, and talk with each other.

Clash of Clans was released to positive reviews, garnering high ratings from many critics.
Many reviewers liked Clash of Clans' gameplay, but some disliked the way the freemium model was presented.

Clash of Clans is an online multiplayer game in which players build a community (in the form of a clan), train troops, and attack other players to earn gold, elixir and Dark Elixir. Gold and elixir can be used to build defenses that protect the player from other players attacks. Elixir and dark elixir is also used to train and upgrade troops and spells. The game also features a pseudo-single player campaign in which the player can attack a series of fortified goblin villages and earn gold and elixir. The game has 2 'builders' by default but one can install more builders (maximum 5) using gems, builders are important for upgrading any building. If all builders are busy one has to either wait (if the player wants to upgrade a building) for them to be free or free them up using gems.

To earn and store gold and elixir, players must build gold mines and gold storages and elixir collectors and elixir storages, respectively. Elixir is used to train new troops, carry out research in the laboratory to upgrade troops, to re-load X-Bows (available from Town Hall 9) and to build and upgrade certain buildings, mostly pertaining to buildings used in attacking another player's base. Gold is used to build defensive buildings and to upgrade the town hall, which allows access to more buildings and higher levels for existing buildings. At higher levels, dark elixir becomes available; this type of elixir is used to train and upgrade dark elixir troops and heroes, create dark spells, and fuel the Inferno Tower, a defensive building that is available only at Town Hall 10. The Eagle Artillery which is a defensive building that is only available at Town Hall 11, is fueled by elixir. Town Hall 11 also provides access to a new hero - The Grand Warden. It is the only hero born out of elixir. To earn and store dark elixir, players must build dark elixir drills and dark elixir storages.

There are a number of buildings available to the player to defend their village, including cannons, mortars, bombs, teslas, traps, archer towers, wizard towers, inferno towers and eagle artilleries. Players can also build walls, which can be upgraded, as a players town hall level increases.

The game has two kinds of barracks (barracks and dark barracks) and two kinds of spell factories (spell factory and dark spell factory). The barracks create troops using elixir whereas dark barracks create troops using dark elixir. The spell factories follow the same pattern, normal spell factory creates spells using elixir and dark factory using dark elixir. All troops and spells have different properties. As the player progresses, several new troops and spells get unlocked. 

Aside from the game's resources (gold, elixir and dark elixir), the game also uses gems as a currency. Gems may be used primarily to finish the time that certain processes take, such us the remaining time of a building's or a troop's upgrade, or to instantly train an army. Additionally, they can be used to "boost" certain buildings, such as resource productions and barracks. Gems may be acquired through in-app purchases, they may be awarded for reaching certain milestones or completing achievements or they can be earned from clearing obstacles, such as trees, mushrooms or gem boxes, which spawn randomly on a player's base.
Clans are groups of players who join together to support each other, either materially (donating troops) or verbally (giving advice). Players can join clans once they rebuild the special Clan Castle building early on. A major component of the gameplay of Clash of Clans is clans facing off against one another.
Clan leaders and co-leaders can begin wars against other clans. Each clan is then given one "preparation day" and one "war day." When a player attacks a member of the opposing clan, they receive stars based upon the amount of destruction they cause to the opponent's community. Each player is limited to two attacks per war, and the team with the most stars at the end of the war day is declared victorious.
If the two clans' amount of stars are equal, then the victorious clan is the one that has a greater percent destruction. Players receive bonus war loot if he/she use their attacks in the war. This loot is different on different bases and is decided by Supercell, the top most base has the most war bonus loot and the last base has the least amount of bonus loot. If the clan wins the war, the bonus loot is fully delivered to the player but during a loss one-third of the loot is delivered to the player. In the May 2016 update, Friendly Challenges were introduced to allow clanmates to compete amongst other clanmates, however these challenges do not provide loot or trophies and does not affect a player's army.